>> Ifill: YEMEN'S GOVERNMENT
COLLAPSES, THE U.S. BACKED
PRESIDENT AND HIS CABINET STEP
DOWN AS SHIITE REBELS
EFFECTIVELY TAKE OVER THE
COUNTRY'S CAPITOL.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY,
TARGETIN ISGLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS ALLIES GATHER IN
LONDON TO DIUSS SCHOW TO TAKE
DOWN THE EXTREMISTS.
WE TALK WITH THE BRITISH FOREIGN
SECRETARY.
>> Ifill: PLUS, WHY MOST
EXPECTING PARENTS IN THE U.S.
CAN'T EXPECT PAID MATERNITY OR
PATERNITY LEAVE, AND WHY THAT'S
BAD FOR THE ECONOMY.
>> ANYTIME THAT I WENT TO THE
GROCERY OR HAD TO GET GAS OR BUY
DIAPERS, I BOUGHT EVERYTHING ON
MY CREDIT CARDS.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE EUROPEAN
CENTRAL BANK ANNOUNCED A
SWEEPING STIMULUS PROGRAM TODAY,
MODELED ON THE U.S. FEDERAL
RESERVE'S EFFORTS.
STARTING IN MARCH, AND RUNNING
THROUGH SEPTEMBER, THE EUROPEAN
BANK WILL BUY UP $1.2 BILLION IN
BONDS.
THE GOAL IS TO FLOOD THE
CONTINENT'S AILING ECONOMY WITH
EUROS, AND MAKE LOANS AND
EXPORTS CHEAPER.
>> Ifill: THE NEW OUT OF EUROPE
STIMULATED WALL STREET, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
MORE THAN 259 POINTS TO CLOSE
JUST SHORT OF 17,814; THE NASDAQ
ROSE NEARLY 83 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 4,750; AND THE S&P 500 ADDED
31 TO FINISH AT 2,063.
>> Woodruff: U.S. OFFICIALS
REPORT PROGRESS AFTER HISTORIC
TALKS IN HAVANA, AIMED AT
NORMALIZING RELATIONS WITH CUBA.
THE AMERICAN DELEGATION PRESSED
FOR LIFTING TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS
ON U.S. DIPLOMATS.
CUBA DEMANDED ITS REMOVAL FROM
THE U.S. LIST OF STATE SPONSORS
OF TERRORISM.
AFTERWARD, BOTH SIDES SAID
THEY'D MADE A GOOD START WITH A
LONG WAY YET TO GO.
>> WE HAVE-- AS OUR PRESIDENTS
HAVE TAKEN THIS STEP-- TO
OVERCOME 50 YEARS OF A
RELATIONSHIP THAT WAS NOT BASED
ON CONFIDENCE OR TRUST.
SO THERE ARE THINGS THAT WE HAVE
TO DICUSSS BEFORE WE CAN
ESTABLISH THAT RELATIONSHIP AND
SO THERE WILL BE FUTURE
CONVERSATIONS.
>> ( translated ): WITHOUT A
DOUBT WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE
TO ARRIVE AT THIS POINT TO
FORMALIZE.
NOT ALL THE ISSUES CAN BE AGREED
UPON IN JUST ONE MEETING, WE
NEED TO MAKE PROPOSALS AND
CONTINUE THE EXCHANGE.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S NO DATE YET
FOR THE NEXT ROUND OF THE TALKS.
>> Ifill: A DEADLY NEW ATTACK IN
EASTERN UKRAINE DOUSED HOPES FOR
A NEW PEACE EFFORT.
AT LEAST 13 PEOPLE DIED WHEN
MORTAR ROUNDS BLASTED A BUS STOP
IN THE REBEL HELD CITY OF
DONETSK.
LINDSEY HILSUM, OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THEY'D JUST GOT ON
THE TROLLEY BUS WHEN THE SHELL
HIT.
DESTINATION-- MAYBE WORK, OR
SHOPPING.
DOING ANYTHING IS DANGEROUS IN
DONETSK THESE DAYS.
THE VICTIMS WERE THOSE WITH
NOWHERE ELSE TO GO.
EVERYONE IS USED TO SEEING THE
DEBRIS OF WAR, EVERYONE WAITS IN
DREAD FOR THE CALL.
>> ( translated ): THEY CALLED
ME AND TOLD ME MY WIFE WAS
KILLED, I DIDN'T SEE WHAT
HAPPENED.I JUST ARRIVED.
I SAW THEM PUTTING HER IN THE
CAR.
THAT'S ALL.
>> Reporter: WHO FIRED THE
ROCKET?
BOTH SIDES BLAME THE HER,OT AND
NETHERI WILL BELIEVE THE VERDICT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONITORS
CAREFULLY MEASURING TRAJECTORIES
AND SHRAPNEL.
THE SEPARATIST LEADER, ALEXANDR
ZAKHARCHENKO, STOOD OVER THE
COFFINS OF THE BUS ATTACK
VICTIMS AND MADE THE PRISONERS
OF WAR LOAD THE DE INTADO
TRUCKS.
IN BERLIN, THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER WAS BLAMING THE
UKRAINIANS.
IN KIEV, THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT
WAS BLAMING THE RUSSIANS AND FAR
AWAY IDAVON S, THE GERMAN
CHANCELLOR WAS TALKING ABOUT A
CEASE-FIRE.
SOME HOPE.
OVERNIGHT, THE RUSSIAN BACKED
SEPARATISTS TOOK CONTROL OF
DONETSK AIRPORT.
THE SMALL BAND OF UKRAINIAN
SOLDIERS WHO'D HELD ON FOR EIGHT
MONTHS WERE KILLED OR RETREATED.
A YEAR AGO, THIS WAS THE GATEWAY
TO UKRAINE'S ECONOMIC
POWERHOUSE.
NOW IT'S A SYMBOL OF HOW QUICKLY
PEACE AND PROSPERITY CAN BE
DESTROYED.
>> Ifill: JUST YESTERDAY,
RUSSIA, UKRAINE, FRANCE AND
GERMANY MET TO WORK OUT A
DIVIDING LINE BETWEEN UKRAINE'S
FORCES AND THE REBELS.
>> Woodruff: THE EBOLA EPIDEMIC
IN WEST AFRICA APPEARS TO BE
EBBING.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
ANNOUNCED TODAY THERE WERE 145
NEW CASES LAST WEEK CONTINUING A
STEADY DOWNWARD TREND.
IN ALL, MORE 21,000 PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN INFECTED, AND MORE THAN
8,600 HAVE DIED, IN THE
OUTBREAK.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
A MAJOR PUBLIC CORRUPTION CASE
ROCKED NEW YORK STATE TODAY.
THE LONG-TIME SPEAKER OF THE
STATE ASSEMBLY, DEMOCRAT SHELDON
SILVER, WAS ARRESTED ON FEDERAL
CHARGES OF TAKING $4 MILLION IN
BRIBES AND KICKBACKS.
U.S. ATTORNEY PREET BHARARA
SCOFFED AT SILVER'S CLAIM THAT
IT WAS ALL ATTORNEY REFERRAL
FEES.
>> AS ALLEGED, SPEAKER SILVER
NEVER DID ANY ACTUAL LEGAL WORK.
HE SIMPLY SAT BACK AND COLLECTED
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS BY CASHING
IN ON HIS PUBLIC OFFICE AND HIS
POLITICAL INFLUENCE.
>> Ifill: SILVER DENIED THE
ACCUSATIONS AND SAID HE'S
CONFIDENT HE'LL BE VINDICATED.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON,
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE RALLIED
AGAINST ABORTION, IN THE ANNUAL
MARCH FOR LIFE.
THE DEMONSTRATORS PROTESTED THE
SUPREME COURT'S 1973 THAT
LEGALIZED ABORTION.
AS THEY RALLIED, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS TIGHTENED A BAN ON
FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MOST
ABORTIONS.
A SEPARATE BILL, OUTLAWING MOST
LATE-TERM ABORTIONS, WAS PULLED
AFTER A NUMBER OF REPUBLICAN
WOMEN BALKED AT SUPPORTING IT.
>> Ifill: OVER IN THE SENATE,
MINORITY LEADER HARRY REID RE-
EMERGED IN PUBLIC TODAY, AFTER
BEING INJURED IN A NEW YEAR'S
DAY EXERCISE ACCIDENT.
THE 75-YEAR-OLD NEVADA DEMOCRAT
SPOKE WITH A HEAVY BANDAGE STILL
COVERING HIS RIGHT EYE.
HE SAID HIS INJURIES ARE NOT
ENOUGH TO STOP HIM FROM SEEKING
REELECTION NEXT YEAR.
>> I HOPE I'M BACK FULL-TIME.
YOU KNOW, I MAY NOT BE DOING
EVERYTHING AS I DID BEFORE,
ALTHOUGH THIS MORNING, I'M DOING
PRETTY WELL.
I'VE WORKED UP NOW TO WHERE I'M
OUT WALKING FOR AN HOUR.
SO I'M STILL DOING MY BEST.
>> Ifill: REID WILL HAVE SURGERY
ON MONDAY TO RECONSTRUCT BROKEN
FACIAL BONES AND DRAIN BLOOD
FROM HIS DAMAGED EYE.
>> Woodruff: AUTHORITIES IN
FERGUSON, MISSOURI, AND THE
FAMILY OF MICHAEL BROWN WAITED
TODAY FOR A U.S. JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCEMENT.
IT HAS BEEN WIDELY REPORTED THAT
FORMER POLICE OICERFF DARREN
WILSON WILL NOT FACE FEDERAL
CIVIL RIGHTS CHARGES FOR FATALLY
SHOOTING BROWN.
A STATE GRAND JURY ALREADY
DECIDED NOT TO INDICT WILSON ON
CRIMINAL CHARGES.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, A FUROR OF
SORTS RAGED ON, OVER FOOTBALLS
USED BY THE NEW ENGLAND
PATRIOTS.
COACH BILL BELICHICK AND
QUARTERBACK TOM BRADY SAID THEY
DON'T KNOW HOW TEAM FOOTBALLS
CAME TO BE UNDER-INFLATED
SUNDAY, WHEN THEY BEAT
INDIANAPOLIS TO ADVANCE TO THE
SUPER BOWL.
THEY SPOKE AT SEPARATE NEWS
CONFERENCES.
>> WHEN I CAME IN MONDAY
MORNING, I WAS SHOCKED TO LEARN
OF THE NEWS REPORTS ABOUT THE
FOOTBALLS.
I HAD NO KNOWLEDGE WHATSOEVER OF
THIS SITUATION UNTIL MONDAY
MORNING.
>> I'VE ALWAYS PLAYED WITHIN THE
RULES, I WOULD NEVER DO ANYTHING
TO BREAK THE RULES.
I BELIEVE IN FAIR PLAY AND I
RESPECT THE LEAGUE, AND
EVERYTHING THEY'RE DOING TO TRY
TO CREATE A VERY COMPETITIVE
PLAYING FIELD FOR ALL THE NFL
TEAMS.
>> Ifill: BELICHICK SAID THE
TEAM IS COOPERATING WITH THE
N.F.L.'S INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
THE GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
COLLAPSES.
BRITAIN'S FOREIGN MINISTER ON
HOW TO TAKE DOWN THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP.
THE DEBATE OVER PAID FAMILY
LEAVE AND ITS AFFECT ON THE
ECONOMY.
THE POLITICAL PUSH TO ENGAGE
AMERICANS ON SOCIAL MEDIA.
AND, SEEKING BETTER ALTERNATIVES
TO STANDARDIZED TESTS.
>> Ifill: NOW TO YEMEN, WHERE
THE COUNTRY'S FUTURE AND
STABILITY IS VERY MUCH IN
QUESTION TONIGHT.
EARLIER TODAY, YEMEN'S PRESIDENT
ABD-RABBU MANSOUR HADI, AN ALLYD
AFTER A SHIITE REBEL GROUP,
BELIEVED TO BE BACKED BY IRAN,
TOOK CONTROL OF HIS RESIDENCE.
THE REBELS KNOWN AS THE HOUTHIS
EFFECTIVELY CONTROL THE CAPITAL
SANAA AND OTHER AREAS, BUT LARGE
SWATHS OF THE COUNTRY REMAIN
OUTSIDE THEIR CONTROL AND IN THE
HANDS OF AL QAEDA.
FOR MORE ON WHAT THIS ALL MEANS
FOR YEMEN, THE REGION, AND THE
UNITED STATES, I'M JOINED BY
GREGORY JOHNSEN AUTHOR OF "THE
LAST REFUGE: YEMEN, AL-QAEDA AND
AMERICA'S WAR IN ARABIA."
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
TELL US HOW THIS DRAMATIC
COLLAPSE CAME TO OCCUR.
>> Reporter: RIGHT.
SO THE ROOTS OF WHAT HAPPENED
TODAY ACTUALLY STRETCH BACK TO
THE ARAB SPRING IN 2011 WHEN THE
U.S., THE UNITED NATIONS, AND
YEMEN'S NEIGHBORS PUT TOGETHER A
DEAL THAT SAW YEMEN'S LONGTIME
PRESIDENT STEP DOWN IN EXCHANGE
FOR UNITY AND PRESIDENT HADDIE
COME IN, IN HIS PLACE.
PRESIDENT HADI WAS HIS VICE
PRESIDENT.
WHAT'S HAPPENED IN THE THREE
YEARS SINCE THEN, IS PRESIDENT
HADI HAS REALLY BEEN UNABLE TO
BRING IN DIFFERENT GROUPS,
GROUPS SUCH AS THE HOUTHIS,
GROUPS LIKE SOUTHERN
SECESSIONISTS INTO HIS
GOVERNMENT.
IT'S BEEN A SLOW-MOTION COLLAPSE
AND TODAY WAS THE PROVERBIAL
STRAW THAT BROKE THE CAMEL'S
BACK.
FIRST THE PRIME MINISTER AND &
HIS CABINET RESIGNED.
AND ONCE THAT HAPPENED,
PRESIDENT HADDIE HAD REALLY NO
OTHER OPTION.
HE HAD TO STEP DOWN, AND NOW
YEMEN IS A COUNTRY WITHOUT A
PRESIDENT, WITHOUT A VICE
PRESIDENT, WITHOUT A PRIME
MINISTER, AND WITHOUT A CABINET.
>> Ifill: AND THE U.S. IS A
COUNTRY WITHOUT AN ALLY WHERE IT
HAD ONE IN THE PAST.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS COLLAPSE
TO THE U.S. EFFORTS TO CURB
TERRORISM, ESPECIALLY THE KIND
THAT IS ROOTED IN YEMEN?
>> Reporter: RIGHT.
THIS IS VERY SIGNIFICANT, AND I
THINK IT'S VERY WORRISOME U.S.
COUNTER-TERRORISM OFFICIALS IN
WASHINGTON.
WHAT THE U.S. HAS BEEN DOING
OVER THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS IS
ESSENTIALLY RELYING ON PRESIDENT
HADI AND FOR A WHILE PRESIDENT
SOLA, FOR THEIR PERMISSION TO
CARRY OUT DRONE STRIKES AND FOR
YEMENY FORCES ON THE GROUND TO
FOLLOW THE DRONE STRIKES UP WITH
OFFENSES AGAINST AL QAEDA IN THE
ARABIAN PENINSULA.
NOW, WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THIS
ORGANIZATION, AQAIP, IS QUITE
STRONG IN YEMEN.
AT DIFFERENT TIMES IT'S
ATTEMPTED TO CONTROL TERRITORY.
WHAT'S HAPPENED IN 2014 AND NOW
IN EARLY 2015, AS THE GOVERNMENT
HAS CLAPSED IN SANAA, THE POWER
HAS SEEDED BACK MORE AND MORE
INTO THE CAPITOL, UNTIL TODAY
WHEN GOVERNMENT POWER
ESSENTIALLY EVAPORATED, AND THAT
OPENED UP A HUGE AMOUNT OF SPACE
FOR ANYBODY STRONG ENOUGH AND
SMART ENOUGH TO TAKE POWER.
AND SO WHAT WE'RE GOING TO SEE
IS GROUPS LIKE THE HOUTHISS,
GROUPS LIKE THE AL QAEDA IN THE
ARABIAN PENINSULA ESSENTIALLY
MAKE A LAND GRAB FOR AS MUCH
TERRITORY AS THEY CAN POSSIBLY
HOLD DISPP THIS IS VERY
DANGEROUS FOR THE UNITED STATES,
AS WELL AS FOR EUROPE, BECAUSE
WHAT HAPPENS IN THESE SITUATIONS
IS THAT AL QAEDA'S ABLE TO
ESTABLISH TRAINING CAMPS AND
THOSE TRAINING CAMPS, OF COURSE,
ATTRACT RECRUITS, AND THEN THE
WORRY IS THAT THOSE REUNITED
STATES CROOUT MAKE THEIR WAY TO
THE WEST.
>> Ifill: AND HOW MUCH OF A
ROLE DO WE KNOW THAT IRAN
PLAYED-- DOES IRAN PLAY IN
BACKING THE HOUTHIS AND OTHER
GROUPS WHO AT THE SAME TIME
SITTING AT THE NEGOTIATION TABLE
WITH THEM ORG ISSUES?
POINT, AND ONE THAT THE U.S. IS
OFTEN SEEMED A LITTLE BIT
CONFUSED ABOUT.
THE U.S. OFTEN CALLS THE HOUTHIS
MOVEMENT AN IRANIAN-BACKED
ORGANIZATION, BUT THE HOUTHIS
ARE A LOCAL YEMENY GROUP.
THEY HAVE GRIEVANCES BACK TO THE
60s.
IT THERE HAVE BEEN SIX SEPARATE
WARS THAT HAVE BEEN FOUGHT
BETWEEN THE YEMENI GOVERNMENT
AND THE HOUTHIS UP IN THE NORTH
IN 2010.
SAUDI ARABIA ACTUALLY STARTED
FIGHTING THE HOUTHIS AS WELL SO
IT'S EASY TO SEE THIS AS SOWDY
AND IRAN IN SOME SORT OF PROXY
WAR IN YEMEN.
I THINK WHAT'S ACTUALLY MORE
ACCURATE IS THE HOUTHIS, LIKE
MOST GROUPS WITHIN YEMEN, WILL
OPEN THEIR HANDS AND TAKE MONEY
FROM ANYONE.
SO THE HOUTHIS CERTAINLY GET
SUPPORT FROM IRAN, BUT THAT
SUPPORT DOESN'T NECESSARILY
CHANGE THEIR MEANS.
THEY JUST TAKE THE MONEY AND DO
WHATEVER IT IS THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO DO ANYWAYS, WHICH IN
THIS CASE MEANS TRYING TO PUT
TAIGHT GOVERNMENT WHICH,
UNFORTUNATELY, I THINK, LARGE
PORTIONS OF, OF YEMEN, INCLUDING
THE SOUTH, ARE GOING TO RESIST.
SO WE HAVE A RECIPE, REALLY, FOR
A VERYICATIC AND VERY DISASTROUS
SITUATION IN YEMEN.
>> Ifill: IS THERE STL A WORRY
THAT THERE WILL BE REGIONAL
DESTABILIZATION AS A RESULT OF
THIS?
YOU MENTIONED SAUDI ARABIA.
WE JUST TOUCHED ON IRAN.
WHO IS THE MOST WORRIED?
>> Reporter: I THINK YOU'RE
EXACTLY RIGHT, GWEN, IT'S SAUDI
ARABIA.
SAUDI ARABIA IS INCREDIBLY,
INCREDIBLY WORRIED ABOUT THE
CHAOS FROM YEMEN.
THEY DON'T WANT ANY OF IT
SEEPING OVER THEIR BORDERS.
IN RECENT YEARS THEY'VE DOUBLED
AND REALLY STRENGTHENED THEIR
BORDER GUARDS.
THEY HAVE A VERY, VERY LONG--
OVER 1,000-MILE-LONG BORDER WITH
YEMEN, AND THEY'RE INCREDIBLY
CONCERNED.
THEY'RE CONCERNED NOT ONLY WITH
THE HOUTHIS BUT ALSO WITH
MEMBERS OF AL QAEDA, SOME OF
WHOM HAVE SAUDI NATIONALITY,
COMING BACK INTO THE KINGDOM AND
CARRYING OUT ATTACKS.
SO THEY'RE INCREDIBLY
FRIGHTENED, AND RIGHT NOW SAUDI
ARABIA DOES NOT HAVE A VERY GOOD
POLICY.
ONE CONVERSATION I HAD WITH THE
YEMENI GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
TODAY, HE SAID, "LOOK, IN RECENT
YEARS, SAUDI ARABIA HAS PLAYED A
VERY STABILIZING ROLE IN YEMEN,
PARTICULARLY IN HELPING TO PROP
UP THE CURRENCY.
BUT IF THE HOUTHIS COME TO
POWER, AS MANY FEAR, AND IF THE
HOUTHIS TAKES CONTROL OF THE
GOVERNMENT, THAT MONEY OF
EVAPORATE, AND THEN THERE WILL
BE ECONOMIC COLLAPSE WITHIN
YEMEN.
SO ONCE YOU HAVE ECONOMIC
COLLAPSE BENEATH ALL THIS
POLITICAL CHAOS, THEN YOU HAVE A
SITUATION IN WHICH NO ONE REALLY
KNOWS WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN.
BUT WE KNOW THAT YEMEN WON'T
NECESSARILY IMPLODE BUT, RATHER,
IT WILL EXPLODE, AND IT WILL
AFFECT BOTH ITS NEIGHBOR, SAUDI
ARABIA, AS WELL AS THE WORLD AT
LARGE, INCLUDING EUROPE AND THE
UNITED STATES.
>> Ifill: POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS DOMINO EFFECT.
GREGORY JOHNSEN, AUTHOR OF "THE
LAST REFUGE: YEMEN, AL-QAEDA AND
AMERICA'S WAR IN ARABIA," THANK
YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, TO THE MULTI-
NATIONAL FIGHT AGAINST ANOTHER
TERRORIST GROUP, THE ISLAMIC
STATE.
REPRESENTATIVES FROM SEVERAL
COUNTRIES, INCLUDING THE U.S.,
MET IN LONDON TODAY TO DISCUSS
THEIR EFFORTS TO CRIPPLE THE
GROUP.
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER IS
THERE AND FILED THIS REPORT.
>> Warner: 21 FOREIGN MINISTERS
CAME TO THE LONDON CONFERENCE
TABLE.
IN THE FACE OF CRITICISM THAT
GAINS AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE
FORCES IN IRAQ HAVE BEEN SLOW IN
COMING.
BUT SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY BROUGHT AN UPBEAT
ASSESSMENT, USING THE MILITANT
GROUP'S ARABIC ACRONYM.
>> WE ARE TAKING OUT DAESH'S
FIGHTERS IN THE THOUSANDS THUS
FAR, SINGLE DIGITS, BUT
THOUSANDS.
THEIR COMMANDERS, 50% OF THE TOP
COMMAND, HAS BEEN ELIMINATED.
>> Warner: PRESIDENT OBAMA BEGAN
ASSEMBLING THE INTERNATIONAL
COALITION LAST AUGUST AFTER
ISLAMIC STATE FORCES SURGED INTO
IRAQ, AND THREATENED IRAQI
KURDISTAN.
THE GROUP NOW ENCOMPASSES SOME
60 NATIONS, INCLUDING SEVERAL
ARAB AND GULF STATES, WORKING TO
CURB THE ISLAMIC STATE'S
MILITARY CAPABILITY, FINANCING
AND ONLINE APPEAL.
AND A FEW, LED BY THE U.S., ARE
CARRYING OUT SCORES OF AIR
STRIKES EVERY WEEK.
KERRY DECLARED KURDISH AND IRAQI
ELEMENTS HAVE MADE SOME STRIDES
ON THE GROUND AS WELL.
>> IN RECENT MONTHS WE HAVE SEEN
DEFINITIVELY DAESH'S MOMENTUM
HALTED IN IRAQ AND IN SOME CASES
REVERSED.
GROUND FORCES SUPPORTEBYD
NEARLY 2,000 AIR STRIKES NOW
HAVE RECLAIMED MORE THAN 700
SQUARE KILOMETERS FROM DAESH.
>> Warner: ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS CONTINUE TO HOLD A
LARGE SWATH OF IRAQ AND SYRIA
WITH STRONGHOLDS THAT INCLUDE
THE KEY CITY OF MOSUL IN
NORTHERN IRAQ.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, IRAQI PRIME
MINISTER HAIDER AL-ABADI
COMPLAINED HIS TROOPS ARE NOT
RECEIVING WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION
QUICKLY ENOUGH.
TODAY, IN LONDON, HE STRUCK A
MORE CONCILIATORY TONE.
>> ( translated ): THE
INTERNATIONAL COALITION WHICH WE
ATTENDED TODAY WILL STRENGTHEN
OUR RESOLUTION TO FIGHT DAESH.
I'VE ASKED BEFORE FOR MORE
SUPPORT AND I THINK MY CALL
DIDN'T GO UNNOTICED.
>> Warner: IN TURN, BRITISH
FOREIGN SECRETARY, PHILIP
HAMMOND, A FORMER DEFENSE
MINISTER, SOUGHT TO REASSURE THE
IRAQIS.
>> THIS CAMPAIGN IS NOT GOING TO
FAIL FOR THE WANT OF SOME GUNS
OR SOME BULLETS IN THE HANDS OF
THE IRAQI SECURITY FORCES.
>> Warner: THE CONFERENCE ON THE
HEELS OF JIHADIST TERROR ATTACKS
IN COALITION MEMBER COUNTRIES,
FRANCE, CANADA AND AUSTRALIA.
AND ISLAMIC STATE THREATS TO
KILL TWO JAPANESE HOSTAGES.
ALL HAVE INTENSIFIED PUBLIC
PRESSURE TO GO AFTER THE
MILITANTS AT HOME AND ABROAD.
I SAT DOWN WITH FOREIGN
SECRETARY HAMMOND EARLIER TODAY,
HERE IN LONDON.
FOR HAVING US.
THE COALITION HAS BEEN SAYING,
REALLY SINCE THE FALL, THAT
YOU'VE STOPPED THE ADVANCE OF
THE ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ, BUT
THERE ARE REPORTS THAT IN FACT
THEY'RE GAINING MORE TERRITORY
IN SYRIA.
IS THIS BROADER MISSION AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP TURNING
INTO A STALEMATE IN ANY WAY?
>> THERE ARE TWO PARTS TO THIS
AT MISSION.
THERE'S A MILITARY MISSION IN
IRAQ AND SYRIA TO, FIRST OF ALL,
HALT, AND THEN GRADUALLY ROLL
BACK ISIL'S PRESENCE ON THE
GROUND.
BUT WE HAVE TO RECOGNIZE-- AND
WE HAVE RECOGNIZED IN OUR
DISCUSSIONS THIS MORNING-- THAT
THAT IS ONLY THE FIRST STAGE.
THERE IS A VERY BROAD IDEOLOGY
HERE, WHICH HAS CREATED A BRAND,
IF YOU LIKE, AMONG INTERNATIONAL
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS, AND
THAT IS STARTING TO HAVE EFFECT
IN OTHER COUNTRIES AS WELL.
WE'RE SEEING ISIL APPEARING IN
WEST AFRICA, IN NORTH AFRICA,
AND MANIFESTATIONS OF IT
ELSEWHERE AS WELL.
SO WE HAVE-- WE HAVE TO ROLL
BACK ICE NIL IRAQ AND SYRIA, BUT
WE SHOULDN'T DELUDE OURSELVESES
THAT REGAINING CONTROL OF THE
TERRITORY IN IRAQ AND SYRIA IS
THE END OF THE JOB.
>> Warner: IRAQI PRIME
MINISTER ABADI SAID YESTERDAY HE
WANTS-- HE THINKS THE
COALITION'S BEEN A LITTLE SLOW
IN GETTING HIM THE TRAINING AND
EQUIPMENT HE NEEDS FOR HIS
GROUND FORCES.
WHAT IS THE HOLD-UP?
>> I UNDERSTAND PRIME MINISTER'S
ALBAWDY'S IMPATIENCE.
OBVIOUSLY, IF ANY OF US HAD HALF
OF OUR COUNTRY OCCUPIED BY A
HOSTILE FORCE, WE'D BE ANXIOUS
TO GET ON WITH THE JOB OF
RECLAIMING IT.
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT THIS WORK IS
DONE METHODICALLY, CAREFULLY,
AND WHEN THE IRAQI FORCES DO
MAKE THEIR MOVE, THEY ARE
SUCCESSFUL AND DECISIVELY SO.
AS SECRETARY KERRY SAID IN THE
MEETING JUST NOW, WE CANNOT
AFFORD TO FAIL.
>> Warner: AND HOW LONG DO YOU
THINK BEFORE THEY'LL BE READY?
>> SOME TIME THIS YEAR THE IRAQI
FORCES ARE GOING TO BE READY, I
WOULD GUESS, TO START MAKING
DECISIVE MOVES AGAINST ISIL-HELD
TERRITORY.
BUT I WOULDN'T WANT TO BE MORE
FINE GRAINED THAN THAT.
I WOULDN'T WANT TO SAY IF IT
WILL BE IN THE SPRING OR FALL.
>> Warner: DID THE PARIS
ATTACKS, SOME CARRIED OUT BY
THOSE CLAIMING ALLEGIANCE TO THE
AL QAEDA GROUP, OTHERS BY
ALLEGIANCE TO ISIL, DID THAT
CHANGE THE SCOPE AND THE URGENCY
OF THE OVERALL EFFORT OF THIS
COALITION?
>> I DON'T THINK IT CHANGES THE
URGENCY, BUT WHAT IT HAS DONE IS
RE-ENGAGED EUROPEAN PUBLIC
OPINION, CERTAINLY, POST THE
CHRISTMAS-NEW YEAR BREAK,
REMINDING THEM HOW IMPORTANT
THIS IS, NOT JUST AS AN ISSUE OF
FOREIGN POLICY BUT AS AN
IMPORTANT ISSUE FOR THEIR OWN
DOMESTIC SECURITY.
AND WE HAVE TO SEE THIS AS AN
ISSUE ABOUT THE SECURITY OF THE
MIDDLE EAST, THE SECURITY OF
NORTH AFRICA, BUT ALSO, THE
SECURITY OF OUR OWN HOMELANDS.
>> Warner: SO WHAT IS THE
PRACTICAL EFFECT OF YOUR PUBLICS
HERE IN EUROPE BEING MORE
ENGAGED?
>> WELL, THE KEY IMPORTANT THING
FOR US IS THAT PUBLIC OPINION
SUPPORTS SOME OF THE MEASURES
THAT WE NEED TO TAKE IN ORDER TO
MAKE THEM SAFER.
THERE IS ALWAYS A TRADEOFF
BETWEEN THE FREEDOM, THE FREE
SPEECH, THE PRIVACY AGENDA ON
THE ONE HAND, AND THE SECURITY
AGENDA ON THE OTHER.
AND THERE ARE SOME THINGS WE
NEED TO DO IN EUROPE, FOR
EXAMPLE, WE NEED TO INTRODUCE
PASSENGER NAME RECORD,
INFORMATION SYSTEMS IN EUROPE,
THE SAME WAY YOU HAVE IN THE
UNITED STATES SO WE KNOW WHO'S
ON A PLANE BEFORE IT ARRIVES IN
OUR AIRPORTS OR IN OUR AIRSPACE.
AND I HOPE THE EVENTS IN PARIS
AND IN BELGIUM HAVE DECISIVELY
SWAYED PUBLIC OPINION IN FAVOR
OF SENSIBLE MEASURES TO MAKE
EUROPE SAFER AS WELL.
>> Warner: IT WAS LAST
SEPTEMBER THAT ALL THE COUNTRIES
IN THIS COALITION AGREED TO STOP
THE FLOW OF FOREIGN FIGHTERS,
THEIR OWN CITIZENS GOING OVER TO
FIGHT.
DID ANYONE AT THE MEETING TODAY
HAVE ANY EVIDENCE THAT THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN
DOING SO?
>> WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT EVIDENCE
BECAUSE WE KNOW HOW MANY PEOPLE
ARE BEING INTERDICTED FROM THE
U.K. HERE BEFORE THEY LEAVE THE
COUNTRY.
AT TRANSIT POINTS IN EUROPE, I
WAS IN ROMANIA AND BULGARIA LAST
WEEK, BOTH COUNTRIES WHICH ARE
USEED BY U.K. FOREIGN FIGHTERS
HEADING TO TURKEY AND THEN ON TO
SYRIA.
AND AT THE TURKISH BORDER.
THE TURKISH PRIME MINISTER THIS
MORNING HAS SAID CORRECTLY THAT
HE CAN'T SEAL THE BORDER BETWEEN
TURKEY AND SYRIA.
IT'S TOO COMPLEX A BORDER FOR
THAT.
WE HAVE TO HELP THEM BY MAKING
SURE THAT WE DEAL WITH THE
TRANSIT POINTS, WE DEAL WITH OUR
OWN PORTS OF EXIT, BUT THE TURKS
ARE DOING A GREAT JOB.
>> Warner: BOTH THE U.S. AND
IN THE U.K., THE PUBLIC IS WEARY
OF WAR, AND IN BOTH OF OUR
COUNTRIES, LEADERS MADE MOVES TO
GET OUT OF IRAQ, PRETTY SOON OUT
OF AFGHANISTAN.
IN RETROSPECT, DO YOU THINK WE
UNDERESTIMATED THE DEGREE TO
WHICH ISLAMIC EXTREMISM WAS JUST
GOING TO REAPPEAR IN ANOTHER
FORM AS AN ADVERSARY TO THE
WEST, IN THIS CASE, AS THE
ISLAMIC STATE?
>> WELL, I THINK THE LESSON IS
THAT THERE IS A PERVASIVE
IDEOLOGY HERE.
IT'S ONLY SHARED BY A SMALL
NUMBER OF PEOPLE BUT IT IS
ATTRACTIVE TO A CERTAIN GROUP,
PARTICULARLY YOUNG PEOPLE WHO
FEEL DISENFRANCHISED IN THEIR
SOCIETIES.
AND IT WILL POP UP WHEREVER THE
STATE IS WEAK, AND THERE IS
UNGOVERNED SPACE FOR IT TO
FLOURISH.
I'M AFRAID WHEN WE SUCCEED
MILITARILY AGAINST ISIL IN IRAQ
AND SYRIA, THAT WON'T BE THE END
OF THE PROBLEM.
THERE WILL BE FAILED STATES
ELSEWHERE.
THERE ARE FAILED STATES
ELSEWHERE WHERE ISIL OR
ASSOCIATED ORGANIZATIONS, LIKE
BOKO HARAM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA,
WILL POP UP TO PERPETRATE THIS
FIGHT.
SO WE ARE IN A GENERATIONAL
STRUGGLE AGAINST A-- AN IDEOLOGY
WHICH IS A PERVERSION OF ISLAM,
A PEACEFUL RELIGION, AND WHICH
WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH AT ALL
LEVELS.
WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH ITS
MILITARY MANIFESTATION, BUT WE
HAVE TO ALSO TACKLE THE
IDEOLOGY.
WE HAVE TO TAKE IT HEAD ON.
WE HAVE TO CHALLENGE IT, AND WE
HAVE TO DEFEAT IT IN ARGUMENT AS
WELL AS BY FORCE OF ARMS.
>> Warner: AND THE AMERICAN
AND BRITISH PUBLICS HAVE TO BE
READY FOR THAT.
>> EVENTUALLY, WE WILL RESOLVE
THIS SITUATION BUT WE HAVE TO BE
PREPARED FOR THE LONG HAUL.
>> Warner: SECRETARY HAMMOND,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
SAUDI ARABIA'S KING ADBULLAH HAS
DIED.
SAUDI TV MADE THE ANNOUNCEMENT,
CITING PRINCE SOLOMON WHO
BECOMETHE NEW KING.
HE ASCENDED TO THE THRONE OF THE
LEADING OIL PRODUCING STATE IN
2005.
HE HAD BEEN HOSPITALIZED FOR
SOME TIME.
HE WAS 90 YEARS OLD.
>> Ifill: NEARLY 60% OF COUPLES
WITH CHILDREN HAVE TWO PARENTS
WHO WORK OUTSIDE THE HOME.
INCREASINGLY, THEY ARE ASKING
WHY EMPLOYERS ARE NOT DOING MORE
TO HELP.
RECENTLY, THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
ADDED A PUSH FOR PAID LEAVE TO
ITS LIST OF DOMESTIC PRIORITIES.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN HAS BEEN LOOKING INTO
WHAT IT WOULD COST IN ME ATIND
MONEY FOR COMPANIES TO EXPAND
THAT BENEFIT.
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING, MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS.
>> Reporter: AFTER HAVING HER
BABY, ELINORE, VANESSA HAWZE
TOOK 12 WEEKS OFF FROM HER
RETAIL JOB.
UNPAID.
IT CAUSED A CASH FLOW CRUNCH.
>> ANYTIME THAT I WENT TO THE
GROCERY, OR HAD TO GET GAS OR
BUY DIAPERS, I BOUGHT EVERYTHING
ON MY CREDIT CARDS.
>> Reporter: ELINORE'S FATHER,
NICK MCAULIFFE, TOOK NO UNPAID
LEAVE.
BECAUSE IF HE DID...
>> WE WOULD STARVE TO DEATH IF I
DID.
( LAUGHS )
>> Reporter: TEACHER MICHELLE
ALCOSER WAS BACK IN THE
CLASSROOM ONLY FIVE AND A HALF
WEEKS AFTER HAVING SON,
SEBASTIAN, ALL SHE COULD AFFORD.
>> WHEN I FIRST CAME BACK, HE
WAS STILL ONLY SLEEPING ABOUT 90
MINUTES AT A TIME, AND HAVING
THE TIME TO SLEEP AND HANDLE ALL
OF THE ADDITIONAL WORKLOAD THAT
COMES WITH THAT WAS A LOGISTICAL
CHALLENGE.
( LAUGHS )
>> Reporter: AND WHEN HER NEW
BABY, DECLAN, ARRIVED, CLAIRE
PRESTWOOD WAS COUNTING ON SICK
OR VACATION PAY FOR AT LEAST
SOME OF HER MATERNITY LEAVE.
BUT HER THREE-YEAR-OLD'S
ILLNESSES HAD WIPED THEM OUT.
SO PRESTWOOD WENT TO PROVIDERS
OF LAST RESORT.
>> WE SOLICIT LEAVE DONATIONS
AND COLLEAGUES OR WORK FRIENDS
WILL DONATE.
SO FAR, I'VE RECEIVED TWO
DONATIONS.
>> Rorteepr: THEY COVERED TWO
DAYS OF PAID LEAVE, FOR WHICH
THE PRESTWOODS' ARE ETERNALLY
GRATEFUL.
SUCH STRESSES ARE THE NORM IN
AMERICA, BUT, NOWHERE ELSE.
ACCORDING TO THE UNITED NATIONS,
WE AND PAPUA NEW GUINEA ARE THE
ONLY COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD THAT
DO NOT PROVIDE ANY PAID TIME OFF
FOR NEW MOTHERS.
AND ONLY SINCE 1993 HAVE WE HAD
THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE
ACT-- OR F.M.L.A.-- WHICH GRANTS
UP TO 12 WEEKS OF UNPAID LEAVE
FOR FULL-TIME WORKERS AT FIRMS
WITH FIFTY OR MORE EMPLOYEES.
BUT THE LAW FAILS TO COVER FULLY
40% OF AMERICAN WORKERS, LIKE
PART-TIMER KIMBERLY LEWIS.
>> I DON'T ACTUALLY GET TIME
OFF.
>> Reporter: LEWIS, A GRADUATE
ASSISTANT, WON'T BE ELIGIBLE FOR
EVEN UNPAID LEAVE WHEN SHE GIVES
BIRTH FEBRUARY.
>> I'VE BEEN WORKING DURING THIS
SEMESTER BREAK TO KIND OF BANK
HOURS IN ORDER SO THAT WHEN THE
BABY DOES COME, I WON'T HAVE TO
REPORT TO WORK THE NEXT DAY.
>> Reporter: THE NEXT DAY.
AS FOR PAID FAMILY LEAVE, 16
WEEKS IN THE NETHERLANDS, 52
WEEKS IN DENMARK AFTER THE BIRTH
OF A BOUNCING BABY OR EVEN A
DANCING BABY, ALMOST 70 WEEKS IN
SWEDEN, 12 WEEKS IN BURUNDI--
THAT'S JUST A PIPE DREAM FOR
AMERICANS LIKE LEWIS.
HERE ONLY ONE IN EIGHT RECEIVE
PAID FAMILY LEAVE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA PUSHED PAID
LEAVE IN HIS STATE OF THE UNION.
AND HIS DEPARTMENT OF LABOR HAS
URGED BUSINESSES TO LEAD ON
LEAVE.
BUT, CLAIRE PRESTWOOD POINTS
OUT, THE GOVERNMENT ITSELF
DOESN'T OFFER PAID LEAVE. SHE
KNOWS BECAUSE SHE'S A FEDERAL
EMPLOYEE.
>> IT'S SLIGHTLY HYPOCRITICAL TO
TELL THE PRIVATE SECTOR THEY
NEED TO PAY MATERNITY AND
PATERNITY LEAVE, BUT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT ITSELF DOES NOT OFFER
THAT.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT HAS
NOW DIRECTED FEDERAL AGENCIES TO
ADVANCE EMPLOYEES SICK LEAVE, TO
BE REPAID LATER, AFTER THE BIRTH
OF A BABY, HE IS ALSO PRESSING
CONGRESS TO GRANT SIX WEEKS OF
ACTUAL PAID FAMILY LEAVE, THOUGH
PASSAGE IS UNLIKELY.
>> Reporter: BUT NOTHING'S
CHANGED FOR PRIVATSECTE OR
WORKERS LIKE VANESSA HAWZE.
JUST TO GET APPROVAL FOR HER
F.M.L.A.-MANDATED UNPAID LEAVE,
IT TOOK MULTIPLE CALLS TO HUMAN
RESOURCES, DOCTORS NOTICES, A
PASSEL OF PAPERWORK.
>> IT CHANGED MY OPINION OF
WANTING TO BE EMPLOYED WHILE
BEING A NEW MOM.
>> IT'S JUST SO DIFFICULT TO
DEAL WITH YOUR EMPLOYER.
>> Reporter: NOW YOUR HEART
MIGHT GO OUT TO THESE WOMEN, BUT
MAYBE YOUR MIND SHOULD AS WELL.
PAID LEAVE NOT ONLY BOLSTERS
FAMILIES, SAYS ECONOMIST CHRIS
RUHM, BUT BOASTS BROAD ECONOMIC
BENEFITS AS WELL.
>> IT LEADS TO HIGHER OVERALL
EMPLOYMENT RATES OF WOMEN.
>> Reporter: RUHM HAS FOUND THAT
NEW MOMS ARE MORE LIKELY TO
RETURN TO WORK IF THEY GET PAID
LEAVE.
>> IT'S GOING TO PRESERVE HUMAN
CAPITAL, WHICH LEADS TO HIGHER
PRODUCTIVITY.
I THINK WE WOULD BE WILLING TO
ACTUALLY PAY SOME COSTS TO
SUPPORT A FAMILY VALUE, BUT IN
FACT IN THIS CASE, WE ACTUALLY
MIGHT GET A BENEFIT.
SO, SO IT'S A DOUBLE GAIN.
>> Reporter: TAKE GOOGLE, ONE OF
SEVERAL TECH FIRMS THAT ENTICE
TOP TALENT WITH FAMILY FRIENDLY
PERKS.
WHEN GOOGLE EXTENDED PAID
MATERNITY LEAVE TO 18 WEEKS, THE
RATE AT WHICH NEW MOMS LEFT THE
COMPANY FELL BY 50%.
YOUTUBE C.E.O. SUSAN WOJCICKI, A
LONGTIME GOOGLE EMPLOYEE,
HERSELF ON HER FIFTH MATERNITY
LEAVE, CORROBORATES ECONOMIST
RAHM.
>> PAID LEAVE WORKS TO AVOID
COSTLY TURNOVER AND TO RETAIN
THE VALUED EXPERTISE, SKILLS AND
PERSPECTIVE OF OUR EMPLOYEES WHO
ARE MOTHERS.
>> Reporter: OKAY, SO THEN THE
OBVIOUS QUESTION: WHY HASN'T THE
US JOINED THE REST OF THE WORLD,
PAPUA ASIDE, IN OFFERING PAID
FAMILY LEAVE?
>> IT CAN BE A, QUITE A HARDSHIP
FOR A COMPANY.
epURER OF
RELIABLE CONTRACTING, WHERE
WORKERS GET 12 WEEKS OFF, PER
THE F.M.L.A.
PLUS, SHORT-TERM DISABILITY
PAYMENTS OF $200 A WEEK.
BUT EVEN THAT'S A BURDEN FOR
FIRMS LIKE HERS, SHE SAYS, THAT
AREN'T QUITE AS RICH AS GOOGLE.
>> IF WE HAVSOMEE ONE IN A
POSITION, THAT JOB IS IMPORTANTE
REPLACED, AND DONE BY SOMEBODY
ELSE.
THAT MEANS PAYING SOMEBODY, I
CAN'T IMAGINE HAVING TO PAY THEM
ALSO FOR THEIR SALARY WHILE
THEY'RE OUT AS WELL.
>> Reporter: THIS IS NO MINORITY
VIEW.
A SURVEY OF BUSINESSES FOUND 98%
OPPOSED TO MANDATED PAID FAMILY
LEAVE
>> IF IT'S GOOD BUSINESS,
BUSINESSES WILL DO IT.
>> Reporter: LIBERTARIAN
ECONOMIST JEFFREY MIRON DISPUTES
THE DATA ON THE BENEFITS OF PAID
LEAVE, BUT REGARDLESS, HE
THINKS, BUSINESS POLICY SHOULD
BE LEFT TO CONSENTING ADULTS.
>> THE GOVERNMENT SHOULDN'T BE
INTERFERING IN THE LABOR MARKET.
IT SHOULDN'T BE DICTATING ANY
TERMS THAT ARE ARRANGED BETWEEN
EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES.
>> Reporter: BUT ARE YOU THEN
SAYING THAT LABOR MARKETS SHOULD
DECIDE THE WAGES AND BENEFITS
REGARDLESS OF ANY LEGISLATION AT
ALL, THAT IS, THERE SHOULD BE NO
MINIMUM WAGE, SAY?
>> THAT IS WHAT I WOULD SAY.
>> Reporter: MIRON'S IS AN
EXTREME VIEW, BUT IT CONTAINS A
KEY QUESTION ABOUT PAID LEAVE:
WHO'S GOING TO DO THE PAYING?
>> EITHER THE OWNER OF THE
BUSINESS IS GOING TO PAY FOR IT
IN LOWER PROFITS OR THE
CUSTOMER'S GOING TO PAY HIGHER
PRICES BECAUSE WE'VE RAISED THE
COST FOR THAT BUSINESS, OR IT'S
GOING TO COME FROM THE SALARIES
OF OTHER WORKERS, BECAUSE
SOMEONE HAS TO PAY FOR THE PAID
LEAVE OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF SUCH A POLICY.
>> Reporter: BUT RUHM NOTES THAT
AFTER CALIFORNIA BECAME THE
FIRST STATE TO MANDATE THE
BENEFIT MORE THAN 90% OF
COMPANIES REPORTED EITHER
POSITIVE OR AT WORST NEUTRAL
EFFECTS.
>> BUSINESSES SEEM TO JUST MAKE
IT WORK, AND THE POLLING DATA WE
HAVE, WHEN WE SURVEY THEM, MOST
OF THEM SAY IT'S JUST NOT A BIG
DEAL.
>> Reporter: AND, SUPPORTERS
ASK, IS IT REALLY GOOD FOR OUR
ECONOMY THAT MOTHERS LIKE
MICHELLE RETURN TO WORK WHILE
HER SON STILL SLEEPS IN 90-
MINUTE BLOCKS AND NURSES
CONSTANTLY, WHILE SHOULDERING A
TEACHING LOAD THAT'S HEAVIER
THAN EVER?
>> IF I THINK ABOUT HOW HARD
IT'S GOING TO BE, THEN I WON'T
DO IT.
>> Reporter: DO WE WANT NEW DADS
LIKE NICK McAULIFFE TO BE BACK
ON THE JOB SO SOON AFTER HIS
DAUGHTER IS BORN?
>> BELIEVE IT OR NOT, KIDS
ACTUALLY NEED THEIR DAD.
I DO WHAT I CAN, BUT I'M GONE
FOR TEN HOURS A DAY.
I'M GETTING FOUR HOURS OF SLEEP
A NIGHT, AND STILL HAVE TO PUT
IN 40, 45, 50 HOURS A WEEK.
>> Reporter: AND IN FACT, MOST
AMERICANS SAY THEY SUPPORT PAID
FAMILY LEAVE BUT NO ONE WANTS TO
PAY FOR IT.
SO FOR THE TIME BEING, IT'S
STILL JUST US AND PAPUA, NEW
GUINEA, GOING IT ALONE.
PAUL SOLMAN, REPORTING FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WE'VE ALL HEARD THE
ADAGE "ALL POLITICS IS LOCAL,"
BUT MORE AND MORE IT'S BECOMING
DIGITAL.
CASE IN POINT: THIS WEEK'S
EFFORTS BY THE WHITE HOUSE TO
PROMOTE THE PRESIDENT'S STATE OF
THE UNION AGENDA ON SOCIAL MEDIA
SITES LIKE FACEBOOK, TWITTER AND
YOUTUBE.
AS PART OF THAT PUSH, MR. OBAMA
WAS INTERVIEWED TODAY BY YOUTUBE
STARS-- PEOPLE WITH LARGE
FOLLOWINGS ON THE VIDEO-SHARING
SITE.
HE MADE HAD SOME NEWS IN THIS
EXCHANGE:
>> DO YOU THINK THAT SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE WILL BE LEGALIZED IN
ALL OF THE UNITED STATES DURING
THE TIME THAT YOU'RE IN OFFICE?
>> THE SUPREME COURT NOW IS
GOING TO BE TAKING ON A CASE.
MY HOPE IS THAT THEY GO AHEAD
AND RECOGNIZE WHAT I THINK THE
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE IN AMERICA
NOW RECOGNIZE, WHICH IS TWO
PEOPLE WHO LOVE EACH OTHER--
>> YES.
>> AND ARE TREATING EACH OTHER
WITH RESPECT AND AREN'T
BOTHERING ANYBODY ELSE, WHY
WOULD THE LAW TREAT THEM
DIFFERENTLY?
I'M HOPEFUL THE SUPREME COURT
COMES TO THE RIGHT DECISION.
>> SHE HAS ABOUT THREE MILLION
YOUTUBE SUBSCRIBERS.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE ISSUES
FACING ANYONE TRYING TO GET A
MESSAGE OUT IS HOW TO DO SO
EFFECTIVELY IN THIS RAPIDLY
CHANGING MEDIA LANDSCAPE.
THE PRESIDENT'S STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS WAS THE LEAST
WATCHED IN FIFTEEN YEARS.
32 MILLION PEOPLE TUNED INTO
BROADCAST AND CABLE OUTLETS,
DOWN FROM A HIGH OF 67 MILLION
IN 1993.
ONLINE, IT WAS A DIFFERENT
STORY.
FAR FEWER PEOPLE WATCHED THAN ON
TELEVISION BUT THE AUDIENCE IS
GROWING.
IN ALL, 1.2 MILLION PEOPLE
WATCHED THE SPEECH ON THE WHITE
HOUSE'S WEBSITE.
2.6 MILLION TWEETED ABOUT IT,
AND 5.7 MILLION LIKED, SHARED,
OR POSTED ABOUT IT ON FACEBOOK.
A SHORT TIME AGO, I SAT DOWN
WITH ONE OF THE ARCHITECTS OF
THE PRESIDENT'S SOCIAL MEDIA
STRATEGY, KORI SCHULMAN.
SHE'S THE DIRECTOR OF ONLINE
ENGAGEMENT FOR THE OFFICE OF
DIGITAL STRATEGY AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
WELCOME, KORI SHULMAN.
SO, TELL US WHAT IS THIS WHITE
HOUSE DOING DIFFERENTLY WHEN IT
COMES TO SOCIAL MEDIA?
>> WELL, THIS WHITE HOUSE IS
DOING A LOT DIFFERENTLY WHEN IT
COMES TO SOCIAL MEDIA.
THE SHEER FACT THAT THERE IS A
DIGITAL OFFICE IN THE WHITE
HOUSE THAT'S DEDICATED TO
FIGURING OUT HOW TO ENGAGE AND
COMMUNICATE WITH THE PUBLIC
ONLINE IS TOTALLY NEW TERRITORY.
SO I THINK THE STATE OF THE
UNION THIS WEEK IS A GREAT
EXAMPLE OF HOW WE'RE LOOKING TO
ENGAGE ON ALL PLATFORMS, NOT
ONLY COULD YOU READ THE
PRESIDENT'S REMARKS IN ADVANCE
ON THE SELF-PUBLISHING PLATFORM
MEDIUM.
YOU COULD CONSUME THE SPEECH IN
REAL TIME ON WHITEHOUSE DIDN'T
GOV, WITH ENHANCED GRAPHICS AND
POLLS AND TAILORED INFORMATION
TO YOUR PARTICULAR CITY OR TOWN
AND REALLY GET A PERSONALIZED
AND UNIQUE EXPERIENCE.
ON TOP OF THAT, EVERYTHING WAS
SHAREABLE SO AS PEOPLE WERE
ENGAGING IN THE SPEECH EXPUCH
WAG THE SPEECH, THEY COULD SHARE
VIDEOS, PHOTOS, FAVORITE LINES
ACROSS THEIR SOCIAL CHANNELS,
NOT TO MENTION THE FACT THAT YOU
COULD WATCH LIVE GIVES OF THE
SPEECH IF YOU WERE ON TUM PLIR
GLO WHO IS IT YOU WOULD AND WHAT
IS IT YOU'RE TRYING TO GET THEM
TO DO?
THE PRESIDENT IS NOT UP FOR
REELECTION.
ARE YOU TRYING TO GET THEM TO
CONTACT MEMBERS OF CONGRESS?
>> I THINK WE GENERALLY AIM TO
MAKE THIS ADMINISTRATION AS OPEN
AND PARTICIPATORY AS WE CAN.
WE LOVE FOR PEOPLE TO PROVIDE
THEIR FEEDBACK AND FOR US TO
HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH THEM.
AHEAD OF THE STATE OF THE UNION,
WE ASKED PEOPLE, WHAT, ARE THE
ISSUES THAT THEY CARE THE MOST
ABOUT?"
THOSE RESULTS FROM THAT POLL
WENT TO THE PRESIDENT'S DESK.
AND THEN AFTER THAT, HE WROTE
THEM A HANDWRITTEN THANK YOU
NOTE.
>> Woodruff: YOU KNOW, SOME
PEOPLE ARE ASKING IS IT REALLY A
GOOD USE OF THE PRESIDENT'S TIME
TO BE TALKING WITH, AS HE IS YOO
SPEND THEIR TIME TALKING ABOUT
SOME OCCASIONALLY SERIOUS
THINGS, BUT SOME TIME DOING SOME
PRETTY SILLY THINGS AS WELL.
HOW DO YOU ANSWER THAT?
>> YEAH, WELL WHAT, I WOULD SAY
IS THE PEOPLE THAT ARE GOING TO
BE SITTING DOWN WITH THE
PRESIDENT TODAY HAVE REALLY
RISEN THROUGH THE RANKS OF
YOUTUBE.
THEY HAVE HUGE ONLINE
FOLLOWINGS.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT MULTIPLE
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE.
AND A LOT OF THOSE PEOPLE ARE
YOUNG PEOPLE THAT MIGHT NOT
OTHERWISE BE WATCHING THE
PRESIDENT'S STATE OF THE UNION
OR CONSUMING CONTENT ON
WHITEHOUSE.GOV.
>> Woodruff: DOES THAT
TRANSLATE INTO SOMETHING THAT
HELPS THE WHITE HOUSE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK IT HELPS THE WHITE HOUSE
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT CAN SPEAK
DIRECTLY TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
ON THE ISSUES THAT HE TALKED
ABOUT IN HIS STATE OF THE UNION.
AND ADDRESS THEIR QUESTIONS HEAD
ON.
THAT'S A REALLY RARE OPPORTUNITY
AND MOMENT I THINK FOR A
PRESIDENT TO HOP ON TO, YOU
KNOW, DIFFERENT PEOPLE'S YOUTUBE
CHANNELS AND CONNECT WITH THEIR
AUDIENCES IN A WAY THAT WE
COULDN'T DO WITHOUT THEM.
>> Woodruff: KORI SHULMAN,
DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF ONLINE
ENGAGEMENT AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TAKE A
BROADER LOOK AT DIGITAL
POLITICAL STRATEGIES WITH
WILLIAM POWERS.
HE IS A RESEARCH SCIENTIST AT
THE LABORATORY FOR SOCIAL
MACHINES AT THE M.I.T. MEDIA
LAB.
BRIAN DONAHUE.
HE'S A VETERAN OF THE 2004
BUSH-CHENEY CAMPAIGN.
AND A FORMER OFFICIAL OF THE
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
HE'S A FOUNDER AND PARTNER AT
KRAFT MEDIA DIGITAL.
AND HANK GREEN WHO WAS ONE OF
THE YOUTUBE STARS TO INTERVIEW
THE PRESIDENT TODAY.
HE HAS MORE THAN TWO MILLION
SUBSCRIBERS TO HIS YOUTUBE
CHANNEL.
WE WELCOME ALL OF YOU TO THE
PROGRAM.
HANK GREEN, YOU JUST DID A
FIRST-OF-A-KIND SIT-DOWN
DISCUSSION WITH THE PRESIDENT.
HOW DID IT GO?
>> IT WENT PRETTY WELL, I THINK.
TO BE HONEST, I DON'T REMEMBER
VERY MUCH OF IT BECAUSE I WAS A
LITTLE BIT SCARED.
>> Woodruff: DID ANYTHING
STAND OUT?
CAN YOU REMEMBER ANYTHING OF IT?
>> YEAH, I'VE NOT HAD A LOT OF
TIME TO DEBRIEF BECAUSE THEY'VE
BEEN SHUFFLING ME AROUND AND I
GOT TO TALK TO LOTS OF COOL
PEOPLE LIKE YOU.
I'M GETTING A DELAY IN MY EAR,
SO IF YOU COULD GO TO SOMEONE
ELSE.
IT'S MAKING IT VERY DIFFICULT TO
TALK.
>> Woodruff: OKAY, WE WILL
COME BACK TO YOU.
WE WERE JUST LOOKING AT A LITTLE
VIDEO OF YOU TALKING TO THE
PRESIDENT.
BRIAN DONAHUE, WHO IS HERE WITH
ME, AS A REPUBLICAN, YOU LOOK AT
THE WHITE HOUSE DOING THIS.
DOES IT LOOK LIKE SOMETHING
THAT'S A GOOD IDEA?
SHOULD THEY BE DOING THIS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN, FIRST OF ALL, IT'S NO
LONGER THE STATE OF THE UNION.
IT'S REALLY HASHTAG SOTU.
THAT'S WHAT EVERYBODY REFERS TO
IT NOW, PEOPLE FOLLOWING THIS
ONLINE THROUGH TWITTER, THROUGH
FACEBOOK, ARE DOING THIS THROUGH
HASHTAGS AND THEES
HIS TEAM DOES THIS
EXTRAORDINARILY WELL.
THEY'RE ABSOLUTE PROS IN SOCIAL
MEDIA AND THE NEW WAYS IN
COMMUNICATION.
YOU KNOW, SIMILAR TO TOM BRADY
MARCHING DOWN THE FIELD ON HIS
WAY TO THE SUPER BOWL.
THEY KNOW THESE PLAYS.
THANE IT WELL.
AND-- BUT I WOULD ALSO SAY,
JUDY, THAT THE REPUBLICANS, THEY
DESERVE CREDIT AS WELL.
FROM 2014 TO NOW SEEMS LIKE
THEY'VE GOT THEIR SPEED TOGETHER
AND THEY'RE REALLY EXECUTING
WELL ON SOCIAL MEDIA, SO WE SAW
A LOT OF ACTIVITY THERE.
>> Woodruff: IT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE PLAYING CATCH-UP.
YOU MENTIONED TOM BRADY AND I'M
THINKING OF RUNNING DOWN THE
FIELD WITH A DEFLATED FOOTBALL.
BUT WE'RE NOT GOING TO GO THERE.
YOU'RE SAYING REPUBLICANS ARE
PLAYING CATCH-UP.
DO I HEAR YOU SAYING THAT?
>> THEY DID TWO FR 2012, BUT IN
2014 WITH A LOT OF VICTORIES--
THERE WERE A LOT LESS DEMOCRATS
IN THE CHAMBER ON TUESDAY NIGHT
DURING THE STATE OF THE UNION
BECAUSE THE REPUBLICANS WERE
EXECUTING VERY WELL IN ALL
COMMUNICATION MEDIUMS, INCLUDING
SOCIAL MEDIA.
I THINK THE REPUBLICANS DID AN
EXCELLENT JOB ON TUESDAY NIGHT,
AND JONIE ERNST DESERVES A LOT
OF CREDIT AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: WILLIAM POWERS AT
M.I.T., HOW DO YOU MEASURE THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF SOMETHING LIKE
THIS?
>> RIGHT, JUDY, WELL, IT WAS
AMAZING TO SEE OBAMA BEING SHOWN
THE GOOGLE ANALYTICS ABOUT HIS
SPEECH.
AND IN FACT, THAT'S HOW YOU SHOW
REACH AND EFFECTIVENESS AND
EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THIS
STUFF IS SENT OUT INTO SOCIAL
MEDIA.
THERE'S A WHOLE SCIENCE OF
SOCIAL MEDIA ANALYTICS THAT DOES
THE ANALYSIS.
IT SHOWS THE TRENDS, AND IT'S
ACTUALLY EXPLODING, AND THERE'S
ALL KINDS OF THINGS WE'RE
LEARNING.
WE'RE GOING DEEPER AND DEEPER
INTO THE MEANING AND SEEING THE
PUBLIC IN A NEW WAY.
THIS IS THE NEW PUBLIC SPHERE,
AND WE'RE JUST BEGINNING TO
UNDERSTAND IT, AND IT'S A VERY,
VERY RICH FUTURE FOR SCIENCE.
>> Woodruff: AND WILLIAM
POWERS, STAYING WITH YOU, WHAT
DOES IT BRING THE WHITE HOUSE?
WHAT DOES IT BRING A POLITICIAN
TO ENGAGE WITH THIS NEW AUDIENCE
OUT THERE THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA,
THROUGH YOUTUBE?
>> RIGHT.
WELL, AS MISS SCHULMAN FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE POINTED OUT, THIS IS
AN OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK DIRECTLY
TO THE PEOPLE, AND PRESIDENTS IN
THE PAST HAVE ALWAYS EMBRACED
SUCH OPPORTUNITIES.
THINK OF F.D.R. WITH THE
FIRESIDE CHATS.
THIS IS A NEW VERSION OF THAT,
YOU MIGHT SAY.
IT'S A RICH MEDIUM.
IT'SANVE MEDIUM WHERE
PEOPLE CAN DO THINGS AND FEEL
PART OF THE CONVERSATION WHERE
THEY REALLY CAN'T WITH
TRADITIONAL MEDIA.
AND FINALLY, IT'S A NEW STYLE OF
CONVERSATION THAT'S THE
CONVERSATION OF OUR MOMENT, AND
A PRESIDENT REALLY HAS TO BE
ABLE TO SPEAK THAT LANGUAGE AND
REACH THOSE PEOPLE.
IN SPEAKING TO HANK, THIS WAS
THIS WONDERFUL INFORMALITY THAT
MADE IT FEEL LIKE A DIFFERENT
INTERVIEW FROM TRADITIONAL MEDIA
THAT I REALLY ENJOYED.
>> Woodruff: HANK, I WILL COME
BACK TO YOU NOW.
I HOPE THE DELAY HAS GONE AWAY.
LET ME ASK YOU, HOW DIFFERENT DO
YOU THINK YOUR CONVERSATION WITH
THE PRESIDENT IS FROM, SAY, WHEN
HE SITS DOWN WITH A TELEVISION
NEWS ANCHOR, AND WHY IS THIS
SOMETHING YOU WANT TO DO?
>> WELL, IT'S NOT THE SORT OF
THING YOU SAY NO TO.
EVEN IF I DIDN'T WANT TO DO IT,
I THINK THAT YOU STILL WOULD,
YOU KNOW.
BUT, YOU KNOW,ENT TO DO IT
BECAUSE I HAVE AN AUDIENCE THAT
I FEEL LIKE SOMETIMES AREN'T,
YOU KNOW, CONNECTED.
THEY DON'T NECESSARILY FEEL LIKE
THEY'RE PAWRT PART COUNTRY.
THEY FEEL MORE LIKE CITIZENS OF
THE INTERNET, CITIZEN OF SHIRR
INTERNET COMMUNITIES, AND I WANT
THEM TO FEEL LIKE THEY'RE PART
OF AMERICA BECAUSE I WANT THEM
TO BE INVOLVED IN THE POLITICAL
PROCESS BECAUSE I THINK WITHOUT
THAT, DEMOCRACY DOESN'T WORK
ANYMORE.
>> Woodruff: DOES IT FEEL
DIFFERENT, THOUGH, DO YOU THINK,
FROM OTHER MEDIA INTERVIEWS WITH
THE PRESIDENT?
>> OH, YEAH.
I THINK IT FEELS DIFFERENT, BUT
I THINK THE GOAL REMAINS THE
SAME, WHICH IS TO INFORM THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE IN THE WAYS
THAT, YOU KNOW, THEY-- THAT THEY
CONNECT WITH MEDIA, IN THE WAYS
THAT THEY GET INFORMATION.
>> Woodruff: BRIAN DONAHUE, I
WANT TO COME BACK TO YOU, I'M
JUST GOING TO BE VERY CRASS
ABOUT IT.
WHAT DOES THE WHITE HOUSE GET
OUT OF THIS?
HOW DOES IT HELP THE PRESIDENT?
UN, WE POINT OUT, HE'S NOT
RUNNING FOR REELECTION.
HOW DOES IT HELP HIS AGENDA TO
BE DOING THIS?
>> SURE.
WELL, THE NEW MEDIA OFFERS
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE PRESIDENT TO
EXTEND HIS MESSAGE.
TWITTER, FACEBOOK, ONLINE
DIGITAL ENGAGEMENT INCREASES
THAT ECHO CHAMBER SO THAT THE
PRESIDENT CAN ENGAGE WITH HIS
BASE, TO PUSH HIS AGENDA AND HIS
POLICIES, BUT ALSO REACH TOWARDS
NEW AUDIENCES AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: I MEAN, DOES THAT
MEAN, FOR EXAMPLE OIMMIGRATION.
HE WANTS A CERTAIN KIND OF
IMMIGRATION POLICY TO BE PASSED
BY CONGRESS.
IS THIS GOING TO MAKE IT MORE
POSSIBLE TO GET IMMIGRATION OR
CHILD CARE LEGISLATION OR
ANYTHING ELSE THAT HE'S PUSHING
FOR?
>> ANY TIME A POLITICAL LEADER,
INCLUDING THE PRESIDENT, IS
ENGAGING AUDIENCES AND HELPING
THEM TO CARRY HIS MESSAGE
FORWARD INTO NEW NETWORK, INTO
NEW PLACES, THAT'S EFFECTIVE.
THAT IS THE WAY THAT NEW MEDIA
WORKS THESE DAYS.
>> Woodruff: AND, BILL POWERS,
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
I MEAN, IS IT-- DOES THIS
TRANSLATE INTO SOMETHING THAT
HAS TRANCHIBLE BENEFIT FOR THIS
PRESIDENT OR FUTURE PRESIDENTS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN, HERE WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT IT JUDY.
I THINK IT'S RESOUNDING AROUND
THE COUNTRY, AROUND THE WORLD.
THE PRESIDENT HAS TO GO WHERE
THE PEOPLE ARE, AND
INCREASINGLY, THE PEOPLE ARE IN
THIS MEDIUM.
YOU CAN SEE THE NUMBERS, THE TV
VIEWERSHIP GOING DOWN, THE
SOCITANCY AND SHARING AND SO
FORTH GOING WAY UP THROUGH THE
ROOF.
THERE ARE BILLIONS OF TWEETS
EVERY WEEK.
THIS IS THE PLACE WHERE OUR
LEADERS REALLY HAVE TO BE, NOT
JUST OUR PRESIDENT.
HE'S THE ONE WHO MASTERED IT
FIRST, BOTH IN ELECTIONS AND NOW
I THINK IN PUSHING HIS POLICIES
AND IT IS GOING TO EXTEND TO
EVERYBODY ELSE.
IT JUST HAS TO HAPPEN.
THIS IS THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: WE ARE SO GLAD
FOR THE THREE OF YOU TO BE
JOINING US.
HANK GREEN, FRESH OFF YOUR
INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA.
BILL POWERS JOIN US FROM
WASHINGTON, AND BRIAN DONAHUE
JOINING US HERE IN WASHINGTON.
>> Ifill: AS CONGRESS BEGINS TO
TACKLE A NEW FEDERAL EDUCATION
LAW THAT WOULD SUCCEED NO CHILD
LEFT BEHIND, ONE OF THE MAJOR
DIVIDING LINES IS ALREADY CLEAR.
WHAT IS THE PROPER ROLE AND USE
OF TESTING?
IT'S A QUESTION THAT HAS LONG
TOUCHED A RAW NERVE AMONG
PARENTS AND EDUCATORS.
A NEW BOOK EXPLORES THAT
CONTROVERSY AND TESTING'S
POSSIBLE FUTURE.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR
CONVERSATION FROM OUR NEW YORK
STUDIOS.
>> Sreenivasan: ON THE ONE
HAND, PARENTS KNOW THEIR
CHILDREN'S TALENTS CAN'T BE
QAWNTIFIED BY MULTIPLE CHOICE
TESTS.
AT THE SAME TIME, THEY OFTEN
WANT THEIR CHILDREN TO DO WELL
ON HIGH-STAKES EXAMS.
A NEW BOOK EXPLORES THOSE ISSUES
AND A GROWING BACKLASH AGAINST
TESTING IN MANY CIRCLES.
IT'S CALLED "THE TEST:  WHY OUR
SCHOOLS ARE OBSESSED WITH
STANDARDIZED TESTING BUT YOU
DON'T HAVE TO BE."
THE AUTHORAINIA JOINS US NOW.
IT'S BEEN A DOZEN YEARS SINCE NO
CHILD LEFT BEHIND, SEVERAL YEARS
SINCE THE RACE TO THE TOP.
NOW WE'RE STARTING TO ROLL OUT
COMMON CORE, AND AS SOON AS I
SAY THESE PHRASES THERE ARE
PARENTS ALREADY BRACING
THEMSELVES.
OUR KIDS ARE NOT AT THE
COMPETENCIES THAT WERE THE GOAL
AND YOUR BOOK REALLY SAYS IN
PART TESTING IS CONTRIBUTED TO
THE PROBLEM.
>> YEAH, YOU KNOW, IT REALLY IS
A CASE OF BIG, UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES BECAUSE TESTS WERE
SUPPOSED TO HAVE SOME KIND OF
SYSTEM OF EQUITY AND OBJECTIVE
MEASURES OF HOW STUDENTS WERE
DOING, BUT BECAUSE OF THE HIGH
STAKES ATTACHED TO THEM,
DISTRICTS AND SCHOOLS ARE
INCREASINGLY SPENDING MORE AND
MORE TIME PREPPING FOR THE TESTS
AND ALSO GIVING BENCHMARK AND
INTERIM EXAMS UP TO A HIGH OF
ABOUT 113 BY THE TIME STUDENTS
GRADUATE.
>> Sreenivasan: 113 TESTS JUST
SEEMS MIND-BOGGLING.
WE'VE DONE SEVERAL STORIES ABOUT
TESTING ON THE PROGRAM.
WHAT IS IT IN YOUR RESEARCH THAT
YOU FOUND THAT MOST SURPRISED.
IS IT THE INDUSTRY THAT'S GROWN
UP AROUND IT?
IS THE VARIANCE IN DIFFERENT
STATES?
>> I THINK IT'S, YOU KNOW,
CONSIDERING THE STAKES, AGAIN,
THAT WE ATTACH TO THESE TESTS
AND THE AMOUNT OF STOCK PEOPLE
PUT IN THEM.
WE TALK ABOUT DATA-DRIVEN
DECISION MAKING AND OUTCOMES AS
THOUGH THIS WERE SOME MEASURE
BUT THE TESTS ARE BEING USED IN
WAYS NEVER DESIGNED FOR.
AND PROFICIENCY, WHICH IS
DICTATED IN THE LAW, NO CHILD
BEST LEFT-HAND, DOESN'T HAVE A
SINGLE SCIENTIFIC DEFINITION.
THERE'S A REAL GAP THERE, I
THINK, BETWEEN THE LEVEL OF
SCIENCE THAT WE'RE WORKING WITH
AND THEN THE DECISIONS WE'RE
MAKING BASED ON THOSE
MEASUREMENTS.
>> Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS THE
INTENTION WAS NOBLE, TO TRY TO
FIGURE OUT A WAY TO MEASURE THE
PROBLEM.
YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE ADVOCATES
FOR TESTINGS WILL SAY IF YOU
CAN'T MEASURE IT, YOU CAN'T
MANAGE IT.
SO HOW DO YOU KNOW WHICH SCHOOLS
ARE FAILING IF YOU DON'T KNOW
HOW THE STUDENTS ARE DOING IN
INSIDE THOSE CLASSROOMS.
>> RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT HAPPENED
FROM THAT NOBLE GOAL TO WHERE WE
ARE NOW?
>> THE PROBLEM IS EXACTLY THAT.
THERE IS SO MUCH WE DON'T
MEASURE, STARTING WITH SENTS
THAT AREN'T MATH AND READING.
THESE TESTS ARE MATH AND READING
BASED ONLY.
THEY DON'T TEST WRITING VERY
MUCH.
BESIDES ALL THE OTHER SCHOOL
SUBJECTS -- SCIENCE, SOCIAL
STUDIES-- THERE ARE ALSO
21st CENTURY SKILLS,
CREATIVITY, COLLABORATION.
YOU CAN'T SHOW THOSE WITH AN
INDIVIDUAL PUTTING MARKS ON A
PIECE OF PAPER.
SO THE ARGUMENT FOR PLANE
EDUCATORS IS THEY'RE BEING
FORCED TO TAKE ATTENTION AWAY
FROM WHAT MIGHT BE SEEN AS THE
MOST IMPORTANT GOALS OF SCHOOL
IN ORDER TO FOCUS ON PRODUCING
CERTAIN RESULTS ON TESTS.
AND AS FOR THE ARGUMENT THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ESTABLISH EQUITY
BY IDENTIFYING FAILING SCHOOLS,
IN FACT, WHAT YOU SEE IS THAT
THE SAME SCHOOLS FAIL OVER AND
OVER AGAIN.
INCOME IS THE STRONGEST
PREDICTIVE FACTOR IN THE OUTCOME
ON THESE TESTS.
SP MERELY MEASURING SCHOOLS
DOESN'T NECESSARILY IMPROVE THE
OUTCOMES.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE SOME OF
THE CRITICS KIND OF THROWING THE
BABY OUT WITH THE BATH WATER IN
THE SENSE THERE'S TESTING,
THERE'S MEASUREMENT, THERE'S
STANDARDS, AND WE'RE KIND OF
LUMPING IT ALL TOGETHER.
IS THERE NOT A ROLE FOR THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN GETTING
ALL THIS INFORMATION TOGETHER IN
A WAY THAT STAT STATE GOVERNMENT
INTENSE VISED TO DO.
>> THERE'S A NEW ARGUMENT SAYING
THE MISTAKE PERHAPS WAS
ATTACHING STAKES TO THE TEST
BECAUSE WHEN A MEASURE BECOMES A
TARGET, IT CEASES TO BE A GOOD
MEASURE.
THAT'S KIND OF AN ADAGE IN
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
SO PERHAPS THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT'S ROLE SHOULD BE IN
DATA COLLECTING BUT WITHOUT
ATTEMPTING TO MAKE DECISIONS
ABOUT CHA SCHOOLS ARE FAILING OR
WHETHER TEACHERS SHOULD GET
ASSESSED RATINGS BASED ON THE
OUTCOME ON A TEST WE CAN ALL
AGREE IS CRABLE IN ITS RESULTS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU EVEN GO
BACK TO THE HISTORY OF WHAT SOME
OF THESE TESTS WERE DESIGNED TO
DO, AND YOU'RE SAYING SOMETIMES
THEY WEREN'T ACTUALLY DESIGNED
TO MEASURE THE INDIVIDUAL
STUDENTS BUT REALLY THE SORT OF
COLLECTIVE, AND NOW THEY'RE
BEING USED ALMOST AS POLITICAL
WEAPONS DEPENDING WHERE YOU
FALL?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THE PROFICIENCY TARGET IDEA,
WHETHER SOMEONE GETS A 181 OR
182, LIKE A GIRL IN FLORIDA I
PROFILED, YOU KNOW SHE'S BEING
HELD BACK IN THE THIRD GRAYS
GRADEBECAUSE SHE'S MISSED HER
READING SCORE BY ONE POINT AND
THE TEST USED WAS NEVER DESIGNED
TO MAKE A SPECIFIC DETERMINATION
THAT SPECIFIC ABOUT ONE SINGLE
STUDENT.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S ALSO
THE PHILOSOPHICAL QUESTION ON IS
TESTING A GOOD INDICATOR OF
FUTURE OUTCOMES?
SO COLLEGES ARE BASING THEIR
ENTRANCE OF CERTAIN APPLICANTS
USUALLY ON A GRADE POINT AVERAGE
AND S.A.T., MAYBE SOME OTHER
EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES.
THEY'RE SAYING BASED ON THAT I
KIND OF HAVE AN IDEA OF WHETHER
YOU'LL DO WELL HERE AND ON INTO
THE WORKING WORLD.
>> RIGHT.
ONE OF THE MOST INTERESTING KIND
OF EMERGING FACTORS IN THE REALM
OF ASSESSMENT IS THE IDEA OF
HALF OF WHAT WE NEED FOR SUCCESS
IS T DNOETERMINED BY ACADEMIC
MEASURES AT ALL.
THESE NONCOGNITIVE MEASURES --
GRIT, PERSEVERANCE.
AND THESE THINGS ACTUALLY CAN
BE-- THEY CAN BE ASSESSED
THROUGH SURVEYS, LOW-STAKES
SURVEYS.
AND THE TYPES OF SURVEYS THAT
THESE ORGANIZATIONS ARE DOING,
IN FACT, ARE QUITE PREDICTIVE OF
PEOPLE'S SUCCESS LATER ON IN
LIFE, EVEN MORE SO THAN G.P.A.
ALONE.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU FRAMED
YOUR BOOK A LITTLE IN A WAY OF
A'S GUIDE.
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE JUST
GETTING THEIR KIDS INTO THE
SYSTEM,EAL RIZING HOW STRESSFUL
IT CAN BE.
WHAT IS A PARENT TO DO?
>> WELL, I GIVE-- LIKE YOU SAID,
A MENU OF OPTIONS.
AND THE FIRST ONE IS DON'T
PANIC.
THESE TESTS ARE THERE BUT THEY
WEREN'T HANDED DOWN FROM THE
MOUNTAIN.
THEY ARE ABLE TO BE THOUGHT
THROUGH CRITICCABLY.
I GIVE STEP-BY-STEP INSTRUCTIONS
FOR PARENTS WHO WANT TO OPT OUT
OF THE TESTS AND I TALK TO
PARENTS WHO WANT THEIR KIDS TO
GET THROUGH THE TEST AND SURVIVE
BUT NOT OVERTAKE THE CHILD'S
EXPERIENCE OF SCHOOL, TO AVOID
TEST ANXIETY WITH METHODS LIKE
MINDFULNESS AND THINGS THAT YOU
NOT ONLY ON THE TEST BUT ALSO IN
LIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
ANYA, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DELOPMVEENTS OF THIS DAY.
KING ABDULLAH OF SAUDI ARABIA
DIED AT THE AGE OF 90.
STATE TV ANNOUNCED CROWN PRINSE
SALMAN WILL BECOME MONARCH.
AND THE U.S.-BACKED PRESIDENT OF
YEMEN RESIGNED, ALONG WITH HIS
CABINET, UNDER PRESSURE FROM
SHI-ITE REBELS.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, INDIE ROCK ICONS
SLEATER-KINNEY ON THEIR FIRST
NEW ALBUM IN TEN YEARS.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.